A lot of people are not going to want to
hear this probably because they bought a
lot of whey protein and now they're
angry about it. I I just I want people
to understand that whey is not giving
you what you think you're getting. And
primarily
the reason it became popular was because
[Music]
Hi, my name is John Jquish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering which gives me
a unique perspective on lots of things
nutrition, sports science, medicine, and
general health related. Today I'm going
to talk about why whey protein is really
not that great. Let's look at the
history of whey protein. In I believe
the late 80s, early 90s, there was a guy
named Dan Duchain. He wrote a book. It
was like the underground athletes guide
to something and it's really just a book
about performance-enhancing drugs and
that's what Dan had always focused on.
He thought that performance-enhancing
drugs were really what everybody should
be interested in and maximizing as much
as possible. So, I I didn't really agree
with that philosophy. But the thing that
made Dan rich is the interesting part of
the story. What Dan did was he went to
different dairies, milk farms, and he
said, you know, all that stuff that you
throw in the trash, all the way.
And that it at the time we was just
straight up waste. Like they just throw
it away. He said, "Can I have that?" And
they said, "Yeah, sure. You're just
lightening our garbage load, so go
ahead." So then Dan took this powder
or he took the whey and processed it so
it would be a consistent powder and
flavored it and then put it in a product
called designer whey protein.
Designer, right? That's marketing. So he
took this trash and then told everybody
it was the greatest thing for them and
the dude made millions in itself. If
somebody saw something that was of value
and others didn't see it of value, then
good for him. But here's the problem
with that idea. Whey protein is 18%
usable by the body. Meaning 18% of what
makes up whey is the proper combination
of amino acids that actually can become
human proteins when processed by the
body. Now, there are quite a few studies
that highlight how quickly whey is
digested and how 100% of it is
digestible. So, a lot of people were
celebrating that idea, especially the
people who manufacture whey protein.
Unfortunately, being digestible and
being usable are not the same subject.
So the usability of protein has
everything to do with its amino acid
composition.
And if you have the right combination of
amino acids like this for example
almost 100% usable by the body
steak is 38% usable by the body. Eggs
are I want to say like 41 or 42%
usable by the body and mother's milk is
48% usable by the body. So there's a
wide array. Oh. Oh, and I should say
vegetable sources of protein are
typically around 9% usable by the body,
which is why I really tell people to
steer clear of that. You're just
absolutely wasting your money. So whey
is twice as good as vegetable sources,
which
is still not that great because if you
think it's 18% usable, well, okay, so
you slug down a giant
shake, which probably in a liter, you
know, bottle of water, and you think
you're getting 50 g of protein, but
really it's only 18% usable. So you're
really only getting 9 g out of that.
Well, that's a lot of stuff to choke
down for nine grams of protein. Like,
you could have done better by having a
small piece of steak or a superior
supplement like forgen. But it's not
about forgen. I I just I want people to
understand that whey is not giving you
what you think you're getting. And
primarily
the reason it became popular was because
most people buy cheap products. They
don't buy good products because they
don't even look into what's good and
especially when it comes to nutrition.
It's mind-blowing how people can respond
to, you know, words like organic.
I mean, plutonium is organic. It occurs
in nature. Does that mean you want to
swallow some? So, I don't think that
that judging this
by any other means other than how usable
is it should really be the discussion.
And I've just I've just taken a
position. I haven't had whey protein
since I learned better, which was
actually in high school. And I think I'm
better because of it. I had better
digestion. And also, if you share a
living space with somebody who has a lot
of whey protein, they don't smell so
great. Uh because they're always having
gas. And so, I just think don't get
ripped off. Don't believe in whey
protein. Either eat some steak or you
can go for foragen. I mean, even even
collagen protein, which I did another
video about and explained how consuming
collagen protein does not at all in any
way contribute specifically to your own
body's ability to build collagen. That's
a complete marketing lie. But it's still
more usable. So like beef protein is
more usable than than whey. I think whey
is probably the lowest grade other than
vegetable source protein. I mean, if
somebody gave me a can of whey or like
pea protein, I'd probably thank them and
then when they weren't around, I'd just
throw it in the trash. Uh, hope this
helped. And please leave any questions
cuz I know a lot of people are not going
to want to hear this probably because
they bought a lot of whey protein and
now they're angry about it. So, feel
free to kick and scream in the comments.
If this video helped you, I want you to
subscribe and follow. I'm going to put
out videos on a regular basis. I think
they're going to help a whole lot of
people, especially if you're one of
those people that doesn't just instantly
grow from lifting regular weights. We've
got the answer for you.